<!--
This file is used as a mainpage for the API documentation,
which is generated by `doxygen`. To generate API
documentation locally, run `doxygen doc/Doxyfile`
-->

# Iguana API Documentation

This documentation shows how to use the Iguana classes.

For additional documentation and examples, [see the main README](https://github.com/JeffersonLab/iguana/blob/main/README.md)

## Algorithms

The algorithms are organized into **namespaces**; click the links to view each of their algorithms, or browse the full list:
- [List of all Algorithms](algo.html)

| Namespace         | Description                                                   |
| ---               | ---                                                           |
| `iguana::clas12`  | Algorithms specific to CLAS12 experimental data               |
| `iguana::physics` | Physics algorithms, which may be more generalized than CLAS12 |
| `iguana::example` | Example algorithms                                            |

### Algorithm Types

<table>
<tr><td> **Filter** </td><td> Remove rows of a bank based on some `bool` condition </td></tr>
<tr><td> **Transformer** </td><td> Transform (mutate) elements of a bank </td></tr>
<tr><td> **Creator** </td><td> Create a new bank </td></tr>
</table>

## Common Functions

All algorithms have the following functions, which may be used in analysis code that uses [the HIPO C++ API](https://github.com/gavalian/hipo); for analysis code that does not, skip to the **Action Functions** section.

| Function                   | Description                 |
| ---                        | ---                         |
| `iguana::Algorithm::Start` | Run before event processing |
| `iguana::Algorithm::Run`   | Run for every event         |
| `iguana::Algorithm::Stop`  | Run after event processing  |

## Action Functions

The action functions do the _real_ work of the algorithm, and are meant to be easily callable from _any_ analysis.
These functions are unique to each algorithm, so view the algorithm documentation for details, or browse the full list:
- [List of all Action Functions](action.html)

### Action Function Types

They match the algorithm types:

<table>
<tr><td> **Filter** </td><td> Returns `bool` </td></tr>
<tr><td> **Transformer** </td><td> Returns an object that should replace one of its inputs </td></tr>
<tr><td> **Creator** </td><td> Create a new object </td></tr>
</table>

Furthermore, some action functions can only be useful if all of the rows of a bank are included in its inputs, which motivates
the following additional classification:
<table>
<tr><td> **Scalar** </td><td>
All inputs and outputs are scalar quantities (single values).
This type of function may be used on a bank row.
</td></tr>
<tr><td> **Vector** </td><td>
All inputs and outputs are vector quantities (lists of values).
This type of action function needs values from all of the bank rows.
</td></tr>
<tr><td> **Mixed** </td><td>
Inputs and outputs are scalar or vector quantities.
</td></tr>
</table>
To maximize compatibility with user analysis code, these functions are overloaded, _e.g._, for every scalar function there is
a corresponding vector function that calls it on each element of its input vectors.
